Array.prototype.groupBy - add (#12980)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/javascript/reference/global_objects/array/groupby/index.md

---
title: Array.prototype.groupBy()
slug: Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/groupBy
tags:
  - Array
  - JavaScript
  - Method
  - Prototype
  - Reference
browser-compat: javascript.builtins.Array.groupBy
---
{{JSRef}}

> The **`groupBy()`** method groups the elements of the provided array according to the values returned by a provided testing function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`groupBy()`** method groups the elements of the calling array according to the values returned by a provided testing function.
```

`callbackFn` is invoked for _every_ index of the array, not just those with assigned values.
This means it may be less efficient for sparse arrays, compared to methods that only visit assigned values.

If a `thisArg` parameter is provided to `groupBy()`, it will be used as the `this` value inside each invocation of the `callbackFn`.
If it is not provided, then {{jsxref("undefined")}} is used.

The `groupBy()` method does not mutate the array on which it is called, but the function provided to `callbackFn` can.
Note however that the elements processed by `groupBy()` are set _before_ the first invocation of `callbackFn`.
Therefore:

- `callbackFn` will not visit any elements added to the array after the call to `groupBy()` begins.
- Elements that are assigned to indexes already visited, or to indexes outside the range, will not be visited by `callbackFn`.
- If an existing, yet-unvisited element of the array is changed by `callbackFn`, its value passed to the `callbackFn` will be the value at the time `groupBy()` visits that element's index.
- Elements that are {{jsxref("Operators/delete", "deleted")}} are still visited.

> > **Warning:** Concurrent modifications of the kind described in the previous paragraph frequently lead to hard-to-understand code and is generally to be avoided (except in special cases).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Warning:** Concurrent modifications of the kind described above frequently lead to hard-to-understand code and is generally to be avoided (except in special cases).
```
